---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - First Blog Post
---

#### _What do you think being a data scientist is about? What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas? What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians? How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?_

I think being a data scientist means having the flexibility to work with several different disciplines such as data engineering, software engineering, and statistics. It also includes weighing the varying expectations of others who have different perceptions of what a data scientist does. I personally see a data scientist as being a blend between data wrangling and applied statistics. Their duties should be split between data gathering, data modeling, and statistical analysis ... along with understanding the questions, requirements, and underlying factors they are presented to investigate.

The primary similarity between data scientists and statisticians would be their knowledge of applied statistics, with a statistician expected to hold more advanced knowledge in modeling and drawing conclusions. A data scientist, on the other hand, should be more familiar with data mining and the sustainable structuring of reusable data sets for future analysis. I view myself leaning more towards a data scientist... having an interest in understanding where data comes from and how it should be formulated in order to produce significant analysis that can be translated into relevant answers for any audience.
