---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Third Blog Post
---

#### _How is the course going so far? What do you like about the course and what would you change about the course? Any other thoughts?_  

Overall, I think the course is going well. I have enjoyed learning R over the past 6 weeks, and have started using it in my professional work too. The discussion board has been responsive with a lot of people contributing, which is always helpful in online education courses.    

If I could change one thing, it would be introducing a group project or a group homework assignment, for one primary reason: Introducing the power of community contributions in GitHub. Even just one group assignment would be a great way to introduce this functionality and having a team contribute towards a common goal with branching and merging. For example, if a small group was presented with a skeleton framework for a program and a shared repo, then within the team we would assign sections of the program to complete, create branches for our individual code, create pull requests that another team member would review for merging to master, etc. Probably an exercise best suited towards the end of the course once people are more familiar with GitHub, but just an idea.  

On a personal note, I've noticed the homework assignments and projects are typically taking twice as long to complete as the provided estimates, but that's ok. I tend to deep dive and explore a lot to help gain more experience with R. I saw this pay off with Exam 1 where I did not spend much time studying, but the hours of hands on experience with the homework assignments and Project 1 were beneficial for learning the key objectives.  

Finally, I think the blog in GitHub is a great idea for the course. Creating the blog in the first week turned out to be a simple introduction to GitHub that made the tool seem less foreign a few weeks later when asked to start connecting with RStudio to keep track of our changes to Project 1.
