---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Second Blog Post
---

#### _Everyone in this course had some programming experience coming in (due to the prerequisites). What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you've used?  What functionality do you like about R?  What parts do you miss about your other language? Do you consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the course, describe your experience when first learning it.)_

The primary software I have worked with prior to this course is SAS. I even recently received my advanced certification in SAS, but have still enjoyed learning R for the first time in 558 and drawing comparisons between the two. I think the biggest functionality of R that I find appealing is the flexibility of the language via the various open source packages that are available for download. There literally seems to be a package available for almost anything you desire, which can also seem overwhelming at first to new users who are trying to figure out where to start.

What I miss most about SAS, ironically, is the more rigid structure of the language. The wide availability of open source packages for R is nice and provides flexibility, but there is redundancy sometimes with multiple functions at hand that accomplish the same task, each with their own varying degree of syntax. SAS has core functions and procedures that have been refined, tried, and tested over several decades, and in my opinion SAS is better suited for enterprise level solutions.

R, on the other hand, seems to be great for individual analysis and short term projects. That said, I have only been using R the past two weeks and am looking forward to learning more of its capabilities! So far I have found the language itself intuitive and easy to learn, and the syntax in most cases is not complicated. I am also a fan of the look and feel of R Studio! Having that one-stop-shop view of input, output, command line, stored variables, etc has proven beneficial in getting comfortable with what is happening each time code is executed. Our upcoming Project #1 should be a good test of what I have learned in R up to this point.
