---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Project 1
---

#### _Once you’ve completed your vignette you should write a brief blog post outlining your project and the findings you made. You should also reflect on the process you went through for this project. Discuss things like:_
- What would you do differently?  
- What was the most difficult part for you?  
- What are your big take-aways from this project?  

[Link to Project 1 Submission on GitHub Pages](https://bsugg.github.io/Project1/)

In brief summary, the development of my project followed an end-to-end view of: identifying what JSON is, how it can be used via APIs for transferring data, the conversion process of JSON into a useable format, applying those methods to the NHL API, and then analyzing the resulting data via numeric tables and visuals as part of the exploration process. The order of my headers in the project is the same order I followed when building the markdown file. I tried not to jump around from section to section, even though it was tempting to start this project with calling the NHL data first using learnings from recent homework assignments, but I instead went through the order of requirements in the project 1 assignment sheet methodically, starting with what JSON is.

A significant amount of time was spent exploring the NHL data to understand what the columns represent, any required data formatting, and testing different combinations of variables in the visual plots. I really enjoyed the analysis, however, and learning more about different skater positions in hockey with relevant metrics like goals scored, assists, penalty minutes, etc. Full disclosure, historically speaking I usually get interested in hockey only when the Carolina Hurricanes are in the playoffs, so it was nice to step into the franchise stats during such an odd time when most professional sports around the world are on hold.

I think the most difficult part of this project was not having a lot of documentation on the NHL API with detailed information on what each column represents. For example, I had to cross-reference the stats from the /franchise-skater-record endpoint with other 3rd party sources to verify this particular data set was only representative of the player's time with the specific franchise that was called.

My three biggest take-aways from Project 1 would be:  
1) I learned a lot more about JSON and it's benefits, both for data transfers over API for and also generally speaking between servers and web browsers.  
2) I can now name all the skater positions in the game of hockey.  
3) There is a new package on the block for JSON to R conversions, called tidyjson.

If I could go back and do this project differently, I would get more into comprehensive player records for entire careers, and not just focus on their time with a single franchise. I would also try to come up with better derived averages, such as average goals scored per game, or per 100 minutes ... something other than just by season, because a season for some players can be 10 games, or they can be 70+ games. I am interested in pursuing this data analysis further outside of class, and possibly for other professional sport leagues as well. Baseball, anyone?
